readme.md, before:

### what should i be working on?

#### weekly schedule

see `readme.md` in each of the folders in this repo labeled `week-1`, `week-2`, and `week-3`


#### a typical day

```text
AM
  8:45  accountability buddy meeting
  9:00  announcements in the Cave
  9:05  aha! moments
  9:20  daily direction
  9:30  booster session (optional)
 10:00  morning activity

 12:30 - 2:00 LUNCH

PM
  2:00  reading hour / geek talk
  3:00  afternoon activity
  6:00  end of day


== notes / exceptions == 

- Wednesdays are solo days, choose your own pair or work alone
- Shadi will offer 10-15 min pairing sessions 3-5 pm, Tue - Thu
```

#### in general for this phase

- planning, programming, reading, writing and speaking
- learning, technology and craftsmanship


### what should i be learning?

#### learning competencies:
- [full list](https://github.com/banana-slugs-2014/phase-1-guide/blob/master/learning-competencies.md)

#### learning goals:
- [week 1](https://gist.github.com/dbc-challenges/3e4ea14543cde43d89ca)  
- [week 2](https://gist.github.com/dbc-challenges/3c983819a8604593791b)  
- [week 3](https://gist.github.com/dbc-challenges/1da8d51de6229fedd73a)  


### what is our working agreement?

- we meet in the Cave every morning at 9 am sharp (except Fridays for check-ins)
- we suggest that our top priorities for this phase be to:
  - learn how to respond and communicate appropriately (re: error messages, challenges, self talk)
  - seek opportunities to help each other, grow stronger as individuals and grow closer as a tribe
  - learn how to express our ideas using software by reading and writing code and speaking to others about it
  - learn how to optimize our own learning

*we can modify this working agreement as we move along*

### what else should i be aware of?

#### group awareness

- new pairs every day x 3 weeks
  - it's ok to split up, but timebox it!
- establish working agreements early
  - check-in with each other
  - set expectations of your working style
  - agree on measures of success
  - agree on logistics and communications
  - agree on a plan of action

#### self awareness
- mindset
- learning signals
  - confusion
  - shame
  - grit
- mental models
- biases

#### progress awareness

- establish a definition of done
- set goals and make estimates
  - measure goals and verify estimates
  - always make a time estimate
  - always gauge relative importance
- log everything you think you will want to measure later
  - your confusion
  - your learning
  - your accomplishments

Commit message:

add notes for working agreements and git workflow

readme.md, after:

### what should i be working on?

#### weekly schedule

see `readme.md` in each of the folders in this repo labeled `week-1`, `week-2`, and `week-3`


#### a typical day

```text
AM
  8:45  accountability buddy meeting
  9:00  announcements in the Cave
  9:05  aha! moments
  9:20  daily direction
  9:30  booster session (optional)
 10:00  morning activity

 12:30 - 2:00 LUNCH

PM
  2:00  reading hour / geek talk
  3:00  afternoon activity
  6:00  end of day


== notes / exceptions == 

- Wednesdays are solo days, choose your own pair or work alone
- Shadi will offer 10-15 min pairing sessions 3-5 pm, Tue - Thu
```

#### in general for this phase

- planning, programming, reading, writing and speaking
- learning, technology and craftsmanship


### what should i be learning?

#### learning competencies:
- [full list](https://github.com/banana-slugs-2014/phase-1-guide/blob/master/learning-competencies.md)

#### learning goals:
- [week 1](https://gist.github.com/dbc-challenges/3e4ea14543cde43d89ca)  
- [week 2](https://gist.github.com/dbc-challenges/3c983819a8604593791b)  
- [week 3](https://gist.github.com/dbc-challenges/1da8d51de6229fedd73a)  


### what is our working agreement?

- we meet in the Cave every morning at 9 am sharp (except Fridays for check-ins)
- we suggest that our top priorities for this phase be to:
  - learn how to respond and communicate appropriately (re: error messages, challenges, self talk)
  - seek opportunities to help each other, grow stronger as individuals and grow closer as a tribe
  - learn how to express our ideas using software by reading and writing code and speaking to others about it
  - learn how to optimize our own learning

*we can modify this working agreement as we move along*

### how can i pair well with others?

consider the following recommended steps to get your pairing session off to a good start:

![establish a working agreement](http://f.cl.ly/items/0F2v1l1u1k2w2K290u35/Screen%20Shot%202014-01-27%20at%205.31.34%20PM.png "working agreements make pairing easy")


### what does our git workflow look like?

[there](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/) [are](https://www.atlassian.com/git/workflows) [many](http://scottchacon.com/2011/08/31/github-flow.html) [different](http://git-scm.com/book/en/Distributed-Git-Distributed-Workflows) [workflows](http://randyfay.com/content/rebase-workflow-git) [available](http://stackoverflow.com/a/2429011/2836874) for you to consider when using git.  did you notice how many different links there were in the previous sentence?

here's the one we'll be using in phase 1:

![dbc phase 1 git workflow](http://f.cl.ly/items/2G3j3O2X1a1I09432b1q/Screen%20Shot%202014-01-27%20at%205.36.27%20PM.png "git workflow for phase 1")


### what else should i be aware of?

#### group awareness

- new pairs every day x 3 weeks
  - it's ok to split up, but timebox it!
- establish working agreements early
  - check-in with each other
  - set expectations of your working style
  - agree on measures of success
  - agree on logistics and communications
  - agree on a plan of action

#### self awareness

- mindset
- learning signals
  - confusion
  - shame
  - grit
- mental models
- biases

#### progress awareness

- establish a definition of done
- set goals and make estimates
  - measure goals and verify estimates
  - always make a time estimate
  - always gauge relative importance
- log everything you think you will want to measure later
  - your confusion
  - your learning
  - your accomplishments
