week-2/readme.md, before:

## week 2

> About the use of language: it is impossible to sharpen a pencil with a blunt axe. It is equally vain to try to do it with ten blunt axes instead.
> 
> -- Edsger W. Dijkstra

#### Monday
9a - orientation to week 2, setting priorities and expectations  
am - [Advanced Ruby](https://github.com/banana-slugs-2014/week-2-challenge-advanced-ruby)  
2p - ruby booster  
pm - [Advanced Ruby](https://github.com/banana-slugs-2014/week-2-challenge-advanced-ruby)  
6p - reading: [POODR](https://www.dropbox.com/s/edpy25pwtfyeckb/Practical%20Object%20Oriented%20Design%20in%20Ruby.pdf), [git](http://pcottle.github.io/learnGitBranching/)  

> The best way to predict the future is to invent it.
> 
> -- Alan Kay

#### Tuesday
9a - OOP intro  
am - [OOP Foundations](https://github.com/banana-slugs-2014/week-2-challenge-oop-foundations)  
2p - intro to applications, mvc & mvvp  
pm - Building Applications  
6p - reading: [POODR](https://www.dropbox.com/s/edpy25pwtfyeckb/Practical%20Object%20Oriented%20Design%20in%20Ruby.pdf)  
```text
Pairing Sessions
----------------
3:00 Nicholas Cu 
3:20 Mason O'Neal 
3:40 Matthew Knudsen
4:00 Darren Dahl
4:20 Brittany Mazza
4:40 Stephen Michael Buchanan
5:00 Jamie McKenzie
5:20 Quentin Devauchelle
```

> Science is what we understand well enough to explain to a computer. Art is everything else we do.
> 
> -- Donald Knuth

#### Wednesday (Solo Optional)
9a - basic OO application design  
am - Building Applications  
2p - advanced testing  
pm - Building Applications  
6p - reading: OOP alternatives  

```text
Pairing Sessions
----------------
3:00 José Menor 
3:20 Eric Joseph Johnson
3:40 Mathilde Mouw
4:00 Timothy Yau
4:20 Irene Yiu
4:40 Hunter Paull
5:00 Armando Reed
5:20 Erin Snyder
```

> Science is the belief in the ignorance of experts.  The first principle is that you must not fool yourself — and you are the easiest person to fool.
> 
> -- Richard Feynman

#### Thursday
9a - intermediate OO application design  
am - Building Applications  
2p - intro to databases, SQL  
pm - Databases  
6p - reading re: databases  

```text
Pairing Sessions
----------------
3:00 Philip Vargas 
3:20 Chermaine Spence
3:40 Hoyt 'Harry' Whelchel
4:00 Ivan Sued
4:20 Anne Willborn
4:40 Christopher Woodrich
5:00 Jonathan Wu
```

> The question of whether Machines Can Think... is about as relevant as the question of whether Submarines Can Swim.
> 
> -- Edsger W. Dijkstra

#### Friday
9a - building persistent applications  
am - pick your first team project  
2p - teachers as consultants  
pm - team project  
6p - review and writing for the week  

> A change in perspective is worth 80 IQ points.
> 
> -- Alan Kay

#### Weekend
- review week 2  
- work on your fundamentals!  
- try a few challenges from the book [Cracking the Coding Interview](https://www.dropbox.com/s/mcoty3rxut46z13/Cracking%20the%20Coding%20Interview.pdf)  
- get some fresh air and relax, life is good  
- plan and prep for week 3  

> Email is a wonderful thing for people whose role in life is to be on top of things. But not for me; my role is to be on the bottom of things. What I do takes long hours of studying and uninterruptible concentration.
> 
> -- Donald Knuth

### themes

**learning: optimizing your learning**  
- reflecting on your learning  
- finding your limits  
- obstacles to learning  
- exploring new modes  

**technology: managing complexity**  
- advanced ruby  
- more code performance  
- object oriented programming  
- relational / non-relational data  
- advanced testing  
- test driven development intro  

**craftsmanship: focus on quality**  
- abstraction and modularization  
- writing maintainable code  
- refactoring code  
- participating in code reviews  
- community awareness  


### discussions

- advanced ruby (shadi)  
- managing dependency (shadi)  
- managing complexity (shadi)  
- testing your code (myles)  
- introduction to relational and non-relational databases (sherif)  


### reading

[dropbox with reading content](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/ldrnf12rpx78eye/Kb1a8z2LFx)

#### Craftsmanship

- [refactoring](http://sourcemaking.com/refactoring)

#### Ruby

- Practical Object Oriented Design in Ruby (finish this book)
- Eloquent Ruby (finish this entire book)
- Confident Ruby (scan this book)
- The Well Grounded Rubyist
- Humble Little Ruby Book

#### Learning

- [Alan Kay on Learning](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=50L44hEtVos)
- On Intelligence
- Bene Brown on the power of vulnerability (video)
- get an overview of [Visible Learning](http://visible-learning.org/glossary/) by John Hattie

Commit message:

add link to Steven Harms' presentation

week-2/readme.md, after:

## week 2

> About the use of language: it is impossible to sharpen a pencil with a blunt axe. It is equally vain to try to do it with ten blunt axes instead.
> 
> -- Edsger W. Dijkstra

#### Monday
9a - orientation to week 2, setting priorities and expectations  
am - [Advanced Ruby](https://github.com/banana-slugs-2014/week-2-challenge-advanced-ruby)  
2p - ruby booster  
pm - [Advanced Ruby](https://github.com/banana-slugs-2014/week-2-challenge-advanced-ruby)  
6p - reading: [POODR](https://www.dropbox.com/s/edpy25pwtfyeckb/Practical%20Object%20Oriented%20Design%20in%20Ruby.pdf), [git](http://pcottle.github.io/learnGitBranching/)  

> The best way to predict the future is to invent it.
> 
> -- Alan Kay

#### Tuesday
9a - OOP intro  
am - [OOP Foundations](https://github.com/banana-slugs-2014/week-2-challenge-oop-foundations)  
2p - intro to applications, mvc & mvvp  
pm - Building Applications  
6p - reading: [POODR](https://www.dropbox.com/s/edpy25pwtfyeckb/Practical%20Object%20Oriented%20Design%20in%20Ruby.pdf)  
```text
Pairing Sessions
----------------
3:00 Nicholas Cu 
3:20 Mason O'Neal 
3:40 Matthew Knudsen
4:00 Darren Dahl
4:20 Brittany Mazza
4:40 Stephen Michael Buchanan
5:00 Jamie McKenzie
5:20 Quentin Devauchelle
```

> Science is what we understand well enough to explain to a computer. Art is everything else we do.
> 
> -- Donald Knuth

#### Wednesday (Solo Optional)
9a - basic OO application design  
am - Building Applications  
2p - advanced testing  
pm - Building Applications  
6p - reading: OOP alternatives  

```text
Pairing Sessions
----------------
3:00 José Menor 
3:20 Eric Joseph Johnson
3:40 Mathilde Mouw
4:00 Timothy Yau
4:20 Irene Yiu
4:40 Hunter Paull
5:00 Armando Reed
5:20 Erin Snyder
```

> Science is the belief in the ignorance of experts.  The first principle is that you must not fool yourself — and you are the easiest person to fool.
> 
> -- Richard Feynman

#### Thursday
9a - intermediate OO application design  
am - Building Applications  
2p - intro to databases, SQL  
pm - Databases  
6p - reading re: databases  

```text
Pairing Sessions
----------------
3:00 Philip Vargas 
3:20 Chermaine Spence
3:40 Hoyt 'Harry' Whelchel
4:00 Ivan Sued
4:20 Anne Willborn
4:40 Christopher Woodrich
5:00 Jonathan Wu
```

> The question of whether Machines Can Think... is about as relevant as the question of whether Submarines Can Swim.
> 
> -- Edsger W. Dijkstra

#### Friday
9a - building persistent applications  
am - pick your first team project  
2p - teachers as consultants  
pm - team project  
6p - review and writing for the week  

> A change in perspective is worth 80 IQ points.
> 
> -- Alan Kay

#### Weekend
- review week 2  
- work on your fundamentals!  
- try a few challenges from the book [Cracking the Coding Interview](https://www.dropbox.com/s/mcoty3rxut46z13/Cracking%20the%20Coding%20Interview.pdf)  
- get some fresh air and relax, life is good  
- plan and prep for week 3  

> Email is a wonderful thing for people whose role in life is to be on top of things. But not for me; my role is to be on the bottom of things. What I do takes long hours of studying and uninterruptible concentration.
> 
> -- Donald Knuth

### themes

**learning: optimizing your learning**  
- reflecting on your learning  
- finding your limits  
- obstacles to learning  
- exploring new modes  

**technology: managing complexity**  
- advanced ruby  
- more code performance  
- object oriented programming  
- relational / non-relational data  
- advanced testing  
- test driven development intro  

**craftsmanship: focus on quality**  
- abstraction and modularization  
- writing maintainable code  
- refactoring code  
- participating in code reviews  
- community awareness  


### discussions

- advanced ruby (shadi)  
- managing dependency (shadi)  
- managing complexity (shadi)  
- testing your code (myles)  
- introduction to relational and non-relational databases (sherif)  


### reading

[dropbox with reading content](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/ldrnf12rpx78eye/Kb1a8z2LFx)

#### Craftsmanship

- [refactoring](http://sourcemaking.com/refactoring)
- Watch Steven Harms present at [Ruby Conf 2013 - Preferring Object-Orientation to Metaprogramming (35 mins)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S3OhoWCnlB0)
*Metaprogramming in Ruby is a mixed blessing: it makes many impossible things possible. This quicker, easier, more seductive path, however, can lead to contorted code that's difficult to maintain and can be hard to understand. So what's the alternative? For many uses of metaprogramming, good object-orientation, or a well-chosen design pattern, can provide just as much power without the challenges to intelligibility. This talk aims to (re)introduce several key Object Orientation concepts, and a few critical design patterns, then present them as superior alternatives to metaprogrammatic approaches.*

#### Ruby

- Practical Object Oriented Design in Ruby (finish this book)
- Eloquent Ruby (finish this entire book)
- Confident Ruby (scan this book)
- The Well Grounded Rubyist
- Humble Little Ruby Book

#### Learning

- [Alan Kay on Learning](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=50L44hEtVos)
- On Intelligence
- Bene Brown on the power of vulnerability (video)
- get an overview of [Visible Learning](http://visible-learning.org/glossary/) by John Hattie
